Don't you need to tell Sanae and
your old man that you're going
to school?
[Nagisa] Those pictures...
[Tomoya] Yeah?
[Nagisa] My father use to
be an actor. I had no idea.
He was really popular in
student theater back when
he was in high school.
Apparently, he won a bunch
of competitions, too.
They never said a word to me.
I knew my mother used to be a
middle school teacher,. but
that's all they told me.
I couldn't help but notice
how happy my parents looked
in all those photos.
But of course they were happy.
They were living out their
dreams.
[Tomoya] Nagisa...
[Nagisa] Not only that,
it was a happiness that
could've lasted forever.
If only I... was never born.
That's not true! Besides,
don't you think they're
still happy now?
But they still had to
give up on their dreams.
Am I wrong?
And look at me... all this time
I've been trying to live out my
dream without ever thinking that
they had to sacrifice theirs.
And I did the same
thing to you too.
I'm so ungrateful.
I've been such a terrible
daughter to them.
I was so set on my dream,
I've made everyone
else suffer for it.
I've wasted all their time.
It's not a waste.
We wanted to help.
But if you get discouraged
and give up now,
then all the work that
everyone's done will
be for nothing.
We all gave it our best to make
it this far. We can't give up!
I could really go for a nap.
You're not nervous at all,
are you?
[Ryou] Nagisa, what's wrong?
[Nagisa] Huh?
She's just a little stressed
out about the show, that's all.
[Tomoya] Tell them.
[Nagisa] Uh, yeah.
[Youhei] What's going on?
She's acting kind of strange.
[Tomoya] It's kind
of a long story.
Just try to act normal, okay?
[Youhei sighs]
Nagisa, let me show you a
little trick for good luck.
Write the character for "person"
on your hand three times.
Person, person, person...
[Kotomi] That's the character
for "enter," not "person."
[Youhei] Who cares?!
[Youhei] Just let me finish!
[Kyou] If you can't
write the kanji,
[Kyou] then the trick
isn't gonna work.
[Youhei] It's the thought
that counts, okay?!
[Kyou] Oh, give me a break!
[Youhei] What does it
matter to you, anyway?!
Our performance isn't til later.
You wanna walk around
for a little bit?
[Youhei] Oh yeah, I should
probably show Mei around.
Then we'll just do our own thing
until the performance, okay?
[Tomoya] So, what do
you wanna check out?
Nagisa!
[Nagisa] Oh, uh wait,
what was that?
I'm sorry. I know I need to
keep it together for the
performance today...
but I still have a lot
of stuff on my mind.
But I took what you
said earlier to heart.
The thing about us all working
on the play together, I mean.
It wouldn't be fair to everyone
else if I ruined the show
just 'cause I was upset.
Hpmh. That's right,
just hang in there.
[Nagisa] Right.
Okazaki?
Now where the heck
did she run off to?
[Tomoya gasp]
[Tomoya] Sanae!
Oh, hello Okazaki!
Wait, didn't you bring
the old man with you?
Akio? No, he told me to go
ahead on my own for now.
You think he'll actually come?
[Sanae] Don't worry about it.
He wouldn't miss Nagisa's
performance for the world,
I'm sure of it.
[Akio] So, she knows
everything now, huh?
[Tomoya] By the time I found
her, it was already too late.
[Sanae] What's Nagisa
doing right now?
I don't know, we got separated.
[Sanae] I see.
[Mrs. Isogai] Mrs. Furukawa?
Oh, Mrs. Isogai.
Well, I'll see you later,
Okazaki.
I'm sure Nagisa's nervous, so
please take care of her, okay?
[Nagisa] Excuse me...
Oh, Furukawa.
Now what brings you here today?
Well, I uh...
I'm looking for something
Okazaki mentioned to
me a while back.
You have a lot of materials
from old high school
plays here, right?
Do you need to use something
as a reference for your show?
[Nagisa] Yes...
[Yukine] I'm looking forward
to seeing you perform
this afternoon.
Break a leg out there, okay?
Right...
I'm sorry, but I need
to step out for a bit.
Still, feel free to look
through anything you
like while I'm gone.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Miyazawa!
Oh, hi Okazaki.
Have you seen Nagisa anywhere?
[Yukine] Oh, she's looking
through some materials from
the old High School Theater
in the second library.
[Tomoya gasp]
[Akio, as Oedipus] Whoever
the man is who freed my feet,
[Tomoya] Nagisa!
[Akio] who released me
from that cruel shackle
and rescued me from death,
may that man die!
It was a thankless act.
Had I perished then, I would
not have come to kill my father,
and men would not see
in me the husband of the
woman who gave birth to me.
[Tomoya gasp]
This is your dad's...
[Akio's performance continues]
It's a video of Dad acting
in a play back when he
was in high school.
He won an award for this
performance in the drama
competition that year.
What is there for me
to see, my friends?
With such stains upon me,
could I look into your eyes?
Apollo brought upon me
these awful things I suffer,
[Akio] but the hand that stabbed
out my eyes was mine alone.
[Nagisa] He's really good.
[Nagisa] When this was filmed,
he was a senior. Just like me.
[Akio] Men of Thebes!
[Akio] I am Oedipus,
your fallen king!
[Nagisa] There's a
world of diffence.
You can't even compare us.
[Audience applauding in video]
Now let's have Furukawa,
the president of the Drama Club,
say a few words
about their win.
Go ahead.
[Akio inhales sharply]
I love being an actooor! Yeaaah!
I'm gonna keep doing theater
for the rest of my life!
Not only that, one day,
I'm gonna become a
professional actor!
Haha! This is just
the beginning!
[M.C.] Well, that certainly
is a nice aspiration,
but could you please give us a
few words as club president?
Live theater is the beeeeest!
You're you, Nagisa.
You just have to do what
you can do and nothing else.
Am I right?
[Applause]
[M.C] And that concludes our
performance from the Choir Club.
Next is a solo play, written and
performed by Nagisa Furukawa,
and presented by the drama club.
Please standby while
the stage is set.
[Kyou] Nagisa!
It's time for your big debut!
Don't be nervous. I'm sure
you're going to be a big hit!
[Kotomi] Just do it like you
did in the dress rehearsal
and you'll be fine.
[Kyou] Don't freak out, okay?
Let's just have fun.
[Botan] Puhi, puhi!
[M.C.] Thanks for waiting.
The Drama Club will now
present "Fantasia Story."
[Tomoya] Nagisa...
Here we go!
[Audience applauding]
[Nagisa gasp]
[Nagisa] That's what
I'm trying to find out.
That way, I can apologize.
[Sanae] No problem!
Leave it to me.
[Youhei] Nagisa?
[Akio] Oh, I rented a video
you guys might like. Here.
Something's wrong...
[Akio] Ah, good to see you.
You're the fruit of
our love, after all.
[Girl 1] What's wrong with her?
[Girl 2] Stage fright, maybe?
Come on. You can do this.
[Kotomi] Nagisa's
acting strange.
[Ryou] Do you think
she's just nervous?
What now, Okazaki?
[Kyou] Should we
drop the curtain?
[Tomoya] It'll be fine.
She can do this, I know it!
I love being an actor! Yeaaah!
I'm gonna keep doing theater
for the rest of my life!
Not only that, one day,
I'm gonna become a
professional actor!
Not only that, one day,
I'm gonna become a
professional actor!
Not only that, one day,
I'm gonna become a
professional actor!
Live theater is the beeeeest!
[Boy 1] Is this
part of the play?
[Boy 2] Looks like
she's crying for real.
[Nagisa sobbing]
[Youhei] This is bad!
Drop the curtain.
[Kyou] Tomoya!
Make your dream come true,
Nagisaaaaaa!
[Kyou] What the?!
[Tomoya] Old man?
Nagisa!
Are you stupid or what?!
A child's dream IS their
parents' dream. You can
make it come true for us!
Don't you realize that our
dream is to watch you live
out YOUR dream!?
Your mom and I didn't
give up our dreams at all!
You get it, Nagisa?
You ARE our dream!
That's what being
parents is all about!
That's what being a
family is all about!
Since then... ever
since that day...
we've been baking our bread...
waiting, longing
for today to come!
If you get discouraged and give
up now, then all our dreams die!
You got that!?
This is your responsibility now!
Get it!?
Sanae, you're here, aren't you?
You tell her, too!
[Sanae] You can do it, Nagisa!
What? What's going on?
[Kyou] Tomoya!
[Kotomi] Huh?
[Tomoya] The same goes
for us too, Nagisa!
What you're trying to make
happen right now is what
Sunohara and I couldn't do!
All of our failures
and frustrations
are resting on your
shoulders now!
[Nagisa inhales, then exhales]
[Nagisa] If you'd like...
If you'd like,
shall I take you...?
To the place... in town,
where wishes come true?
[Tomoya] Take us there, Nagisa!
Take all of us.
This is a world that
has come to an end.
An empty and still world
where no one exists but I.
There is small table
and chair in this room,
but outside the window...
there is nothing but an empty
plain, stretching into an
endless horizon.
This building is old.
I don't know how long
ago it was built.
I live here alone,
passing time in solitude.
Sometimes I venture outside,
picking up little odds and
ends that I might need.
Of course, there is no
one outside, either...
but under the fading sun,
a sea of tiny lights are
fluttering about.
Amidst those lights,
I picked up wood scraps,
nails and many other things.
My purpose was to
create a friend.
But now... even as
I construct him,
I wonder if anyone would be
happy to be born in a
world like this.
At every turn, those feelings
of doubt still haunt me.
[Voice] This world indeed
has come to an end.
It will not give birth
to another life.
This girl is the only living
creature that remains.
Sometime long ago... or perhaps
in the distant future...
I was in a different world.
It was a world full of life.
But I can no longer
return to that place.
Because now I exist inside this
body that she made for me.
What's the matter?
Should I... make another?
But why? It won't
be able to move.
We can't do it.
We can't make friends.
But you don't want me to
make a friend this time?
Something else?
[Voice] I don't know what,
but we have to make something.
She can create something
new from junk parts...
just like she created me.
We can't let that special
gift of her's go to waste.
Yeah, you're right.
If we try hard enough,
with time,
we may be able to make
something truly wonderful.
Well what shall we make then?
[Girl gasp]
[Girl giggles]
[Voice] Something that
will make my heart leap!
She'll make it...
and I can help her.
That, in itself,
is a wonderful thing.
I'll stay by her side,
doing whatever I can.
We'll be together forever.
And one day,
the two of us will
leave this place.
Then we'll travel to the
warm and beautiful world
that I once lived in.
[Audience applauding]
[Nagisa] I remembered the rest.
[Tomoya] Hm?
[Nagisa] The rest of
the story, I mean.
Eventually, the girl and
the little doll decide
to leave that sad
and empty world behind.
'Cause the little doll knew
that somewhere, far, far away,
there was another world
for them to live in.
One full of warmth and life.
So what happens then?
They set out on a long, long
journey... and at the end
And at the end?
[Nagisa] They sing a song.
You serious?
Of course I am.
They sing a song at the
end of the journey,
so I sang a song at
the end of the play.
Why else do you think I would
do something like that?
All right, I'll give you that,
but I doubt she would've
sang the Big Dango Family song.
Well, no, that part was just me.
I know everyone
applauded and all,
but I think they were a little
confused by the ending.
That song kind of ruined the
whole emotional build up.
I just really wanted
to sing it, that's all.
Well, whatever.
Other than the song,
the play was great.
Do you really mean it?
I never flatter people.
You know that.
Yeah, I do.
That's why I was surprised
to hear you say that.
[Nagisa] I'm glad
to see you came.
I got an invitation, after all.
I'm sorry if I was out of
line by telling him... but...
I thought he should know what
was going on at least.
[Naoyuki] I saw the
play this afternoon.
It was a wonderful story.
Thank you very much.
It made me think a lot about
the past, in a good way.
Well, I suppose I
should be going now.
Okay.
Don't drink too much, all right?
[Naoyuki gasp]
Hey, Okazaki...?
Listen, you wanna go
somewhere with me tomorrow?
[Nagisa] Huh?
[Tomoya] It's a three-day
weekend, right?
It'd be nice if it
was just us two.
There's something
I wanna talk about.
[Nagisa] Talk about?
[Kyou] Ah ha!
[Kyou] So there you are!
Everyone's waiting
in the club room.
We can't start the party without
the director and the big star!
Sorry 'bout that.
Let's go.
Okay!
Don't we need to get
permission to go inside
the school like this?
[Tomoya] Whatever,
we're students here,
so I'm sure it's fine.
[Nagisa] I guess you're right.
[Tomoya] Yanno, lately...
[Nagisa] Hm?
Lately, I've been starting
to feel like this school
isn't so bad after all.
Well, is that so? I'm happy
to hear you say that.
Huh? I'm the class monitor?!
Since when?
[Tomoya] Oh yeah, I put
that up there as a joke
when you were absent.
Forgot about that.
And all this time
I never noticed it.
Hm...
There, we're even now.
[giggles]
Ah!
I said before that we had
something to talk about...
Yeah? Is something
on your mind?
[Tomoya] Well, uh... I'm
not sure how to say this.
[Nagisa] Hm?
Uh... Wouldn't it be funny...
if we woke up tomorrow and we
were boyfriend and girlfriend?
Huh?
Will you go out with me, Nagisa?
I love you, Nagisa.
So I... I want to spend
every day of my life
together with you.
Oh, I forgot to tell you,
Okazaki said he was going
over to Sunohara's.
What is it, Okazaki?
Lately...I've had these thoughts
about you that I just can't
get out of my head.
Seem to be enjoying themselves.
If I ask, do you think
they'll let me join in maybe?
There's nobody around,
don't worry about it.
You tell her, kid.
You know what I'm saying.
What, are you in grade school?
All right, then...
I'll just have
to tell her myself.
Man, that's getting
me worked up!